Security advisories post 30.0 release (#1193)
bitcoin-core/bitcoincore.org: _posts/en/posts/2025-10-24-disclose-cve-2025-46597.md

---
title: CVE-2025-46597 - Highly unlikely remote crash on 32-bit systems
name: blog-disclose-cve-2025-46597
id: blog-disclose-cve-2025-46597
lang: en
type: advisory
layout: post
redirect_from:
  - /en/2025/10/24/disclose-cve-2025-46597

## If this is a new post, reset this counter to 1.
version: 1

## Only true if release announcement or security annoucement. English posts only
announcement: 1

excerpt: >
  An attacker could produce a block that crashes nodes running on 32-bit systems in a rare edge case. A fix was released on October 10th 2025 in Bitcoin Core v30.0.
---

Disclosure of the details of a bug on 32-bit systems which may, in a rare edge case, cause the node
to crash when receiving a pathological block. This bug would be extremely hard to exploit. A fix was
released on October 10th 2025 in Bitcoin Core v30.0.

This issue is considered **Low** severity.

## Details

> Before writing a block to disk, Bitcoin Core sanity checks its block size. This check would overflow

Reviewer: The term "sanity check" is not very descriptive, and isn't commonly used this way outside of software development AFAIK
```suggestion
Before writing a block to disk, Bitcoin Core checks that its size is within a normal range. This check would overflow
```

on 32-bit systems for blocks over 1GB, and make the node crash when writing it to disk. Such a block
cannot be sent using the `BLOCK` message, but could in theory be sent as a compact block if the
victim node has a non-default large mempool which already contains 1GB of transactions. This would
require the victim to have set their `-maxmempool` option to a value greater than 3GB, while 32-bit

> system may have at most 4GiB of memory.

Reviewer 2: grammar nit
```suggestion
systems may have at most 4GiB of memory.
```
